# Jira-Sonarqube-Fetcher

This project provides a comprehensive suite of tools for fetching and visualizing data from Jira and SonarQube platforms. It includes Python scripts for data fetching and plotting, organized into separate directories for Jira and SonarQube, alongside the necessary configuration and requirements for running the project.
## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.
### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have Python installed on your system. This project requires Python 3.x.
### Installation 
1. **Clone the Repository** 

Start by cloning the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/thibaudbrg/Jira-Sonarqube-Fetcher.git
cd Jira-Sonarqube-Fetcher
``` 
2. **Create a Virtual Environment** 

It's recommended to create a virtual environment for Python projects to manage dependencies efficiently.

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```



Activate the virtual environment: 
- On Windows:

```bash
.\venv\Scripts\activate
``` 
- On Unix or MacOS:

```bash
source venv/bin/activate
``` 
3. **Install Dependencies** 

Install the project dependencies with:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
``` 
### Usage
#### Jira Scripts 
Copy the `testers_config.json.example` to `testers_config.json` and edit it to match your configuration.
- **Fetching Data:** 

`jira_fetch.py` supports fetching data for X months until today. Usage:

```bash
python jira/jira_fetch.py -m <months> [-v --verbose] [-h --help]
``` 
- **Plotting Data:** 

`jira_plot.py` can be used to generate visualizations based on fetched data. Usage:

```bash
python jira/jira_plot.py [-v --verbose] [-h --help]
```
#### SonarQube Scripts 
Copy the `project_keys.json.example` to `project_keys.json` and edit it to match your configuration.
- **Fetching Data:** 

Similar to the Jira fetch script, `sonarqube_fetch.py` can be used for fetching data. Usage:

```bash
python sonarqube/sonarqube_fetch.py -m <months> [-v --verbose] [-h --help]
``` 
- **Plotting Data:** 

`sonarqube_plot.py` does not require any parameters and can be run as follows:

```bash
python sonarqube/sonarqube_plot.py
```
### Data and Plots 
- Data fetched from Jira and SonarQube is stored in their respective `data` directories within `jira` and `sonarqube` folders. 
- Plots generated by the plot scripts are stored in the `plots` directories within `jira` and `sonarqube` folders.
## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details.